2023年10月30日 下午 7:26|1小时 53分钟 33秒

关键词:
virtual thing、different things、virtual reality system、virtuality design、first system、different realities、different way、virtual world、particular thing virtuality、different applications、virtual avatars、virtual reality device、virtual body、different topics、virtual space、world virtual reality、other realities

文字记录:
teacher 02:30 
Okay, it's 7:30 so please take your seats and we will start the lecture short today. Okay, and you can always use not is a lot of social media tools wechat, WhatsApp signal to form your groups. Okay, so I'm not too worried about that and hope but still if you cannot get into a group within this week okay, just let me know okay, send me an email.

teacher 03:07 
Okay, so without further do let's start today's lecture. I'm Doctor Richard D. I'm been working in the VR AR and also game industry for over 15 years. This subject is called extended reality which means that you will see a lot of different realities for example virtual reality, augmented reality, mix reality. Okay, so we will talk about some of them in very detail, some of them in very brief because virtuality has already been around for over 50 years also okay, later on we will see the history of virtuality but for other realities, for example augmented reality, it has been just around for very briefly and also there are too many details for example, whether the augmented reality is a mobile based augmented reality or is the AR that is down through the optical illusion for example, the Hololens, Microsoft the Hololens which is we call it the CSU optical CSU AR glasses. Okay, so there are just too many too many these little details and I will try to cover as many as possible within this course, but do not expect I talk a lot, you know, or cover everything that has been around. Okay, for a while so, so let's have a look at the some of the basic information by the way, this subject will be video recorded. Okay. If you have some concerns regarding you being record it into the video you can just sit at the back. Okay. Or go to the next room. Okay. The 6:00 o four b but if you want to see me come to this room. Okay.

teacher 04:57 
6048 I think we have some prerequisites. For example, basic knowledge in unity programming is preferred. Okay. If you're very experienced in unity programming. I believe that you will benefit a lot. Okay from your previous experience the next watch the tutorial videos if you're not familiar with unity. Okay, so I have already uploaded quite a lot of videos into to the into blackboard. So I know this is the first semester you are here okay for this metaverse technology master program. So blackboard or learn at port you is the main portal for our communication. Okay, so if I have any announcement, I will announce through blackboard. Okay, use you get your learning materials from blackboard you also submit your assignments through blackboard. Okay. And also if you have any questions, you will always find my email on each on the first page of the slice okay, so you can send me an email.

teacher 06:03 
Next tutorial time of course 6 thirty to 7:20 okay, so today there is no tutorial platform next week we're going to have the tutorials okay, so for the tutorials most of the contents have already been up uploaded to blackboard as I have already said okay, so you can watch the videos but do prepare your own headsets okay headphones here so during the the tutorial if you have any questions feel free to ask me or the TAs okay, the TAs will also be here during the tutorial time and of course we have two hour lecture per week okay from 7:30 to 9:20, the venue, of course, is here, everyone is here. So there is no need to go through the rule numbers for the assignment, which is very important. Okay, so we have one individual assignment. Okay, for this individual assignment, you have to do it individually, okay, which is very obvious. We will, we're sorry, is around the assessment will be 10%, okay, 10% of your total assessment. Okay, so you're going to have one, 100 points, okay, 10 points for the individual assessment.

teacher 07:17 
The second one is the in class test, which is a closed book test, because from this semester on, we need every subject offered by computing will have an element that has to be done in the closed book form, okay, either in classroom or in other forms. Okay, but it has to be close for a close book. Okay, so this will be an, there will be an in class test closed book, which will be 20% of the total score.

teacher 07:47 
We also have, we're going to have the group project. Okay, so for the requirements, you can refer to the documentations on blackboards. Okay, so for the good project, it will be 25%, okay, 25 points out of 100. It will be divided into four phases. Okay, so each phase will have its own theme and also the tasks you're going to come complete.

teacher 08:08 
Okay, for example, for Phase 1, you're only going to have the VR game design documentation. Okay, for the detailed requirements, you may refer to the document I have already uploaded to Robot. So for phase 1, for example, is 3%. Okay, for phase 2 is mainly about implementation. So the weight is a little bit higher is 12%.

teacher 08:28 
For phase three, we're going to have the trial plan and evaluation. Okay, for the evaluation methods, we will also cover some of them in the later lectures. Okay, we expect you to apply those methods you've Learned and then to complete the tasks in phase 3. Okay, so phase 3 is a 4%. Okay, so lastly, we also need you to write a very short report and also do the presentation.

teacher 08:53 
Okay, do the presentation. So this will be 6% okay, 6% and also the presentation will be deliver in the last week 13 okay, 13. And also the final examination which is a 45% okay, so any questions about the assessment? Okay, any questions? Okay, if no questions, let me move on.

teacher 09:24 
Another very important thing is about using Chat GBD. Okay, the for the first time when I deliver this course, there is no such kind of thing. There is no judge GBD, no generative AI, etc.

teacher 09:37 
But now generative AI is really taking off and a lot of students as I, I as far as I know are using it for assessment. Okay, party you has a university wide policy. Okay, so you can go and have a look. Okay, basically you can use GPT and also other generative AI tools for completing the assessment, okay, for completing the assessment, but there is a subject wide policy. Okay, so first of all you have to follow the university style I okay, the second thing which is also very important, you're the person who is responsible for the submissions, okay, not charge GBD or generative AI. Okay, so this may happen very rarely, but that ChatGPT may make some fake references. Okay, so if you submit such kind of things then I will treat you as an irresponsible person.

teacher 10:33 
Okay, you have to check whether the GPT or other generative AI models give you some factual things, okay, not some hallustations. Okay, this is very important. So check. The contents generated by the generative AIS before you submit. Otherwise, I can only blame you. I cannot blame chat GBD, right? Okay. So for textbook, it's very straightforward. You do not need to buy it. It's free. You can go online and download it.

teacher 11:05 
Okay. But not everything covered in this lecture will be covered in the textbook. Okay. And the same thing applies to textbook. Not everything covered in the textbook will be covered in our lecture. Okay. The we only evaluate you based on the topics and also different things we covered in the lecture, not the textbook. Okay, so this is very clear to you. If you are interested in a particular topic, for example, if you're really interested into special user interface, you can go and check this book called The 3D using the Face Theory and practice.

teacher 11:45 
Okay, the same thing can be apply to other aspects and topics covered in this subject. For example, if you're really interested into human perception, option and sensation, you can go to foundations of sensations and perception.

teacher 11:57 
All the textbooks can be borrowed from our library. Okay, all the textbooks can be borrow from our library. Of course, it has a very limited number of copies. Okay, so always first come first okay, next I move to the outlines of the lecture. Okay, so this is the first lecture, so I have to tell you what we're going to cover in the next 13 weeks.

teacher 12:23 
For Lecture 1, we're going to give you a very brief introduction to extend your reality. Okay, this may include, for example, the definitions of eccentrartic historical context of a VR, AR, etc. Interdisciplinary nature. Okay, so this top topics, these topics will be covered in week 1 and week 2, which means this lecture and also the next lecture.

teacher 12:45 
Okay, lecture 2, perception, cognition and psychology. Okay, so of course I'm not going to talk about, for example, what the subject called introduction to psychology. Okay, but still I will talk about the things that are related to psychology, cognition, perception, and in week 3 and week 4, for example, depth perception, color perception, etc.

teacher 13:05 
Okay, so these are very important for you to deliver the, we call it a good experience in XR. Okay, we will talk about some illusions, for example, the rubber hand illusion, the sense of embodiments, etc.

teacher 13:20 
Okay, in Lecture 2, Lecture 3 is about the spatial user interface. Okay, so this is very important because for me I'm often invited to evaluate some of the applications for startups, for some well established companies. But I found that in many cases their user experience design is not very good. The user interface may not be that convenient for people to interact with their VR contents.

teacher 13:49 
Okay, so this is also a very important topic if you want to develop your own Excel applications. So we're going to cover, for example, universal simulation theory, user experience design in XR, cyber sickness, which is a very important topic.

teacher 14:07 
Okay, I have a lot of collaborations within the campus. For example, some professors from school of nursing, from school of design, they may contact me to do a collaborative project, research project. Okay, so every time when I mention virtual reality, they will ask me, hold on minutes, will it be suitable for people to use? I use the virtuality before and I really think feel sick. Okay, these are all about cyber sickness, okay, so we will talk about cyber sickness and see how the experience can be some experience can be designed to mitigate cyber sickness.

teacher 14:45 
Virtual local motion is another in another very important topic because virtual it basically gives you an infinite bounds of space for the users to explore, right? But in reality, this the users are still confined to a physical space, okay, the physical space is of course limited in terms of the size, okay, so you have to find a way for your users to navigate in an infinite large space, okay, while being confined to a limited physical space. Okay, so this is about local virtual locomotion.

teacher 15:20 
Of course, we will talk about other topics in Lecture 3, right? Lecture 4 is about visual rendering and multi sensory XR. Okay, so I think many of you're very familiar with rendering already.

teacher 15:32 
Okay, so if you graduated from CS, okay, you got a bachelor's degree in CS, perhaps you have already completed computer graphics course in your last year, okay, year 4. But for I know that there are students from also from have a design background and also maybe you know some other interactive media background. So you may not fully understand what computer graphics is and how the graphic things can be rendered.

teacher 16:00 
Two headsets, okay, virtual ID headsets. So we will briefly talk about that and I will also use this opportunity to talk about multi century XR, okay, which is a very important research topic for me. Okay, I've been doing multi century XR for quite a while.

teacher 16:19 
Lecture 5, Excel application design and development. Okay, so this particular subject has some overlap with software engineering. Okay. If you have some backgrounds, for example, working in the industry, develop some software systems, even not Excel system, you will know this topic quite well.

teacher 16:38 
Okay, but we will still talk about some related topics, for example, what is application domains, okay, and also how to do prototyping and testing for Excel applications. Lecture 6 will mainly focus on applications and evaluation. Okay application and evaluations is a very important topic for Excel developers okay, in many cases after a graduation you either work for a large company or you start your own business okay, so I know many of the students even undergraduate students after completing some VR XR AR training okay at our department they start their own business in Hong Kong okay, so so you most likely you're going to develop the Excel application for someone else to address a certain problem okay, in this case you really need to have an evaluation method to see how your program can actually address this issue okay, for example you're hired by someone running a museum for example and the museum owner wants to to ask you to develop an XR application for the museum to show their potential visitors what they're going to see in the museum to attract more visitors right so this is a very straightforward business so how can you evaluate that? How do you know your XR application can actually help the owner to achieve the intended results okay, so this is what we're going to cover in Lecture 6 oh, by the way lectures is will be covered in week 8 and 10 okay, we're going to have the in class test in Week 9 okay, Week 9, the last lecture will be Lecture 7 about the latest trends and challenges okay, we'll for example, we're of course we will talk about social BR and meta verse. Okay, I guess this is what why you're here right? You're all interested in metaverse. We will also talk about hectic rendering xr plus AI. Okay, this is also a very hot topic. Okay, I will use o Nvidia Omniverse and I will see if I can invite someone from Nvidia to actually deliver some of the topics. Okay, so body swapping and sense of embodiment extra experience for social thinking and behaviors.

teacher 19:01 
Okay, so these are all different topics we're going to cover in the last selection, but note that the actual content may change because XR is developing so fast. Okay, for example, I almost updates the entire set of slides for Lecture 7 every time I give this course.

teacher 19:21 
Okay, because everything is just developing so fast. I have to just update any questions about the topics of the lectures. Okay, let's move on to tutorial part. So for the tutorial, I won't spend too much time talking about this. I just want to in let you know that I have already recorded video. If you're not very comfortable doing some, for example, VR programming or even programming unity, you should watch the video very carefully. Okay. The video will tell you almost every step for you to develop an XR application. Okay. Although it's a, I would say a simplified version, okay, because there are just so many different functions in unity, I cannot cover them all. Okay, and also I don't think I need to do so because even you go to YouTube, you search for tutorial, you unity tutorial, you will find a lot of videos, okay, I just cover those that are related to XR, okay, related to the function of XR and for the tutorial videos we used in VR. Okay, and also in the demo, if you have already watched the video, you will notice that I use the HTC Vive to actually record the video. Okay, so you're going to have some awkward request which you can borrow from our technical team. I will talk about the checking out of the equipment later on. Okay. But the beauty of a Steam BR is that it can it is compatible with multiple brands or models of VR SS. Okay, even you want to deliver your final product to Oculus Quest you can still follow the entire procedure I made using HTC by.

teacher 21:06 
Okay, so that's about the tutorial again, Week 9 we will use the time to do the in class test. Okay, so the in class test will be two hours. It will not be 3 hours but our TAs will check your student IDS. Okay. And also we will distribute built the papers. Okay, the exam paper the in class test papers.

teacher 21:28 
Okay, so it will take some time so that's why we will also use the tutorial time to just handle this type of things okay, so let me start this be the lecture by talking about the goal of the subject so this is very important because after you finish this you should feel a sense of fulfillment for yourself okay, the goal of the subject is very straightforward equip to you with necessary knowledge and skills to make good XR experiences okay, but the problem is that how do you define good? Okay, so I guess many of you who are from Chinese Mainland okay, just like my background okay, we're always told by our teachers to say that you should be a good student right but every time your your your teachers ask you to be a good student you always have a very puzzled head okay what do you mean right what do you mean by seeing a good student okay for our subject is very straightforward okay we define good as comfortable plus adequate okay comfortable and adequate eh for example for example if you introduce a lot of cyber sickness to our users of course the experience is not that enjoyable right so this is not a good application okay on top of that we also need to make adequate functions and adequate details to the rendering in order to help the users achieve the intended outcomes okay, for example, here we have two different applications one is made by valve, I guess okay, it's called a half Life Alex this is the, I think the most famous VR game.

teacher 23:30 
Okay, nowadays if I, any of you have ever played half life Alex before? Okay, 1,2, anyone? 3. Okay, you should try it. Okay, if you want to be an XR programmer, you should try it. Okay, there are just so many little detail detailed design decisions valve made in making 1/2 of Alex. Okay, so every time my students come to me to see how should I make this special user interface I said check half of addicts and see if it has already been implemented okay, this is the this is my answer to them okay, this is how good this game is okay it's not only about the game content it's about the user experience user interface etc okay and also the simulation of the physics is just fantastic okay, on the other hand we have a Mozilla house okay, so this is a social BR application okay, so it's very similar to for example VR chat rack room other space which has other has already been discontinued by Microsoft which is unfortunate okay but as you can see here the the graphical impression okay if you look at these two games okay the visual impression to you can be quite different okay, half of addicts has a lot of details, right? Has a lot of details, but on the other hand, for the social VR application, Mozilla Hubs, it has much fewer details regarding the rendering, the visual fidelity, right? So all the things seem to be very low polygon, okay, so this is just for. Because it is a social VR application, you have to download all the content from the server, okay, in order to enjoy the experience, okay, half of Alex is around 20 to 30 gigabyte, okay, for the entire game, okay, you cannot imagine that to enter this space, a social VR space, you have to wait for one hour to download it, okay, people will just close it, right? We're not try to do it. So that's why I said adequate okay, adequate is very important if you're designing a VR application for socialization. Okay, low polygon visualizing low polygon style visual style, it's good enough for this purpose.

teacher 26:00 
Okay, but on the other hand, if you want to really want to make a very immersive game okay, VR game you have to think about this okay, especially when people are getting used to the Triple a games nowadays. Okay, so a lot of company just spend millions billion even billions. Okay, for example, if we're talking about star field, okay, or border skates, okay, which is ve very popular nowadays okay, these games will on the, the development cost will be on a billion level, okay, billions of dollars level, but of course, it depends on your application. As long as your applications functions and also the visual rendering, the fidelity is good enough for your application, then we call it adequate. Okay, this will be applied also to when we assess your good project. Okay, as long as it's. I. It's adequate enough, okay, I feel the game is interesting to play, that's it. That's good enough.

teacher 27:05 
Okay, so do not try to spend a lot of time making the visual details of your VR games. Okay, it's not very important. Okay, it's not very important. We will not Mark your assignment, the good project based on the visual fidelity. Okay, so so any questions for this?

teacher 27:30 
Okay, let's move on to have a look at cyber sickness. Okay, I have already mentioned about this. So cyber sickness is a thing that we have to avoid when we design the Xi experiences okay, so what is cyber sickness? Well, cyber sickness is a cluster of symptoms that occur in the absence of physical motion okay, similar to motion sickness. Okay, very interesting.Okay, people ask me, okay, so I feel really DC when I ride on the roller coaster okay, can I see I experience the cyber sickness based on this definition?Yes or no?Yes, anyone said yes?Hands up.Yes, anyone?No?No.Okay, so for other people, other people's opinions, I don't know.Okay, so base on you're right actually.Okay, the sickness you experience when sitting on the roller coaster cannot be cause.

teacher 28:46 
Cyber sickness is called motion sickness.Okay, is caused by motion is not caused by the absence of motion.Okay, if it's caused by absence of motion, it is called cyber sickness.Okay, so, why cyber sickness occur?

teacher 29:05 
Okay, so there are many theories to expand this.Okay, there are two very important theories.One is called sensory conflict theory, as we have already put it here.The other one is called posture instability theory.Okay, that one is a relatively new theory.Okay, relatively new theory and it used to to explain motion sickness but people find that it can also be used to explain cyber sickness okay but I will put that away because we will have a you know this topic discussed in the later lectures okay but now I just want to briefly introduce you to sense sensory conflict theory okay which is very straightforward you have your vestabular system so vestability system is the is you the system for you to control your balance okay you can stand up without falling down this is simply because of your bicycle system okay so the best capital system has a very interesting structure it has three different channels okay in each channel there is fluid okay, there is fluid and this channel can sense the movement the motion of the fluid within your inner ear okay, so vice versa system is in your ears okay, it's in your in the years, when you move for example, if I jump of course the fluid will drop to the bottom of these channels right so the visibility system can sense that and saying that okay, what is going on you're going on right so that's the response from the rest of the system okay, it can only on it consents up and down left and right forward and backwards okay, so basically you can track your balance within the 3D space okay, the other one the the that we use the other sensory channel that we use to control a balance is of course sufficient okay we see the horizon okay so that's why we use this to actually control a balance however in this case the man is seeing is using the VR and the VR content is a rollercoaster experience okay so his eyes are telling him that he is really moving fast on the roller coaster okay but on the other hand the best vestabular system did not detect any motion okay in the 3D space this is where the conflict happened okay so that's why he may feel cyber sickness okay I use may because different people may have different tolerant level okay some people are really tolerant to cyber sickness okay, so he may experience cyber sickness okay, but I would say that for ordinary people you have a very large chance that you will experience cyber sickness okay, so that is the separate sorry sensory conflict theory okay, and how to use sensory conflict theory to explain cyber sickness okay, so any questions?Okay, let's move on.

teacher 32:24 
Another thing that I want to talk before we dive into any details of the lecture it's about the the ours okay the realities so you perhaps you have already heard about virtuality of mental reality mix reality extended reality right so the name of this subject is called extended reality okay, why is like so?Okay first of all I just want to introduce you to this spectrum.Okay, so this is so called virtual and physical spectrum.

teacher 32:54 
Okay, on the left hand side we have the reality, the real physical reality.Okay, on the right hand side we have the virtual reality, okay, which is totally virtual, okay, which is total virtual.So somewhere in the middle we have the augmented reality.Okay, so it is very easy to understand right?Either it can be a mobile AR or optic C through e AR, it doesn't matter.Okay, so we blend reality with something virtual.

teacher 33:27 
Okay, so you all play the Pokemon Go before right?Pokemon go.Have you ever play this game AR game right so that is a that game is called a AR game okay you can toggle the AR mode and turn it off right right so if you all the turn on the AR mode it will use the camera your phone's camera to capture the reality right and then the co Pokemon will appear somehow in front of the camera what has been captured by the camera right so you have the feeling that the Pokemon is standing in front of you okay this is a blend of something virtual and something physical okay of course they're all fake right so even the for the background is captured by by your by your camera, by your phone's camera.So it is a virtual thing.Okay.It's a, it's a just a PNG file, for example, right?It is still virtual.But anyway, it's a blend of the physical world with the virtual world.Okay.So that's why it's called AR.So it is even true for Hololens, Microsoft Hololens.You have the optical see through.You can see everything that is happening around you, right?But still you can see the virtual things floating in front of you.Okay.So this is AR.It is a somewhere in the middle of these spectrum.Okay.How about mix reality?How about mix reality?

teacher 34:51 
Okay, you can treat Mr as an extended version or extended concept to AR okay mix reality to augmented reality okay so normally when we talk about when we say mix reality normally users will have a control regarding how the the physical world will be blended with the virtual world okay so anyone have ever tried Apple Vision Pro before no not really no no one okay I have a student last year who went to the WWDC with me okay so we try the Apple Vision Pro there okay so it has a digital Chrome which is very similar to my Apple Watch okay you can dial this the is each the chrome and adjust how the virtual thing will be may merged with the physical world okay, of course the physical world again is capture using the cameras, okay, and also sensor difference types of sensors okay, so you have the control so that's why it is always just picking the point on this spectrum.Okay, so if you really dial this Digital Chrome, you will be fully immersed in the virtual world then it becomes VR right?So if you doubt it really to the other end you will find that you see everything that is super realistic, but you can sense that it's still captured by the camera.Okay, so you can pick any point on this spectrum.

teacher 36:27 
Okay, so that's why it is called Mix Reality headset okay, that's it that's makes reality last one is extended reality so extender reality can be consider as an as a mix reality plus virtual reality okay, that's it so any questions?

teacher 36:49 
Any questions okay, so we move on to the next slide XR Design okay, so you will hear about XR Design or virtuality design augmented reality design a lot within this subject okay, so when we talk about XR design we're talking about basic the three different things okay, so the first one is environment okay environment can be quite tricky okay, so if we're talking about the VR design then we're talking about a purely virtual environment okay if you're talking about XR design is a mixture of physical environment and the virtual environment.

teacher 37:31 
Okay, so that's why last time a local company showed me a AR Gogo, they called AR Gogo go.Okay, so they showed me and I told them, no, you're not making AR GOG Gogo, it's just a display.Why I say so?Okay, because there is no interaction between the physical environment and the virtual environment.Okay, why it is like, okay, so if you ever try the Hololens before, okay, you will notice that actually Hololens has the ability to sense the environment in 3D.Okay, for example, I have something.Maybe this pencil.Okay, so this is a virtual one.Okay, you treat it as a virtual one.Okay, is it a virtual pen?Okay, the pen is floating around here.Okay?It's floating around here.So if it is true augmented reality, I can see this, right?And I can also see what is going on around me in the physical world, right?This is very straightforward, okay?Everyone tried Hololens or tried Google Glasses before.They can understand this.Even you've ever tried Meta's Quest Pro or Vision Pro, Apple's Vision Pro, you can understand this, right?But the tricky thing is that as I move forward, the pen will either fix here or move with me.Okay?Can you understand the difference?Okay, in one case, the pen is always keeping a relative distance, a constant relative distance to me, okay, in this case, I have the doubt that whether this headset has a so called 6 degree of freedom, whether this headset can sense I'm going forward.

teacher 39:16 
Okay, so you can imagine if this is a monitor, it it is supposed not to move, right?If I move forward, the monitor will not move, it will be here, right?So this is a true AR experience, right?But if the monitor is also moving, who is me and then floating here, right, then it is a fake thing, right?So this is simply because the headset may lack the property or the ability to track my location within this 3D space.Okay, so this is one problem.

teacher 39:52 
And another problem is that imagine this is still the pain, okay?The pain is floating here, okay?But the next time when I start the program, I stand here, so the pen is floating here, right?But my vision is blocked by this physical monitor, right?So I should not be able to see the pain, right?If it is true AR, right?These are two levels, okay?So the first level, as I mentioned, the monitor should not move with me if it's a virtual monitor, okay?So this is the level 1 AR.It means that the headset should be able to sense my motion, right?To achieve the second level, okay?To achieve the second level, the virtual pain will be blocked by this monitor.It require the second ability of the test set.That is the understanding of the physical environment.

teacher 40:45 
Okay.It has two sense.This is a physical thing.It will block my vision, right?If it cannot do so, then it is not a true AR experience.At least is it is not the so called level 2 AI experience.Okay.So it's not clear to you.

teacher 41:03 
Okay.So next time we'll try different AR SS.I know there are lots of different AR SS.None.Okay.Try to do this.Try to make this trick.Okay.Make something virtual, okay, in front of you and try to move and see if this virtual thing will move or not.If it is moving then it's, it is not even a achieving the first level of okay.For the second level you can do the same thing.Okay.You draw something or you create something behind a physical obstacle.I see if it can be blocked or not.Okay.So very few headsets can achieve the second level of AR.Okay.To be honest, it requires special hardware and also software to understand the physical environment.So that's why when apple released the so called Vision Pro, they use the a word called spatial computing, right?You heard about this before special computing.Okay.This particular term is used to describe how the headset can understand this understanding environment okay, so I tried this on Apple's Vision Pro and it can actually achieve that which is amazing okay, level 2 AR okay, so that's that is the interaction between the physical environment and the virtual environment of course is limited by the ability of your headset okay, but within these limitations you have to think about this okay, so that's the first component of XR Design okay, the second component is called interaction okay, interaction can also be categorized as explicit and implicit interaction okay, implicit and explicit interaction hi depict that okay, still I will use the this pen here okay, maybe I use a bottle so it's it will be larger so the bottle is here.Okay, so now the extra application ask me to have a detailed look of this bottle.Okay, for example, you can imagine it is a game, okay, I have to find a lot of details in order to, for example, escape from the room, for example, right?So now the game gives me a hint that there is something wrong with this bottle of water.So I have to have a more detail look.Okay, what should I do?What should I do?I either do this, right?Or I pick it up and have a look.So everyone will do that.So this is very straightforward.This is actually called implicit interaction.Implicit interaction is what we do when we're asked to perform some actions without even thinking about it.Okay?We're not even conscious that we did that, but we did that.Okay?I want to have a look.So I just pick it up to have a look.Or I just become closer to the bottom and have a look.That's it.And the same thing, for example, the game tells me that you have to move to this position.Okay?So I just move to this position.I work to this position.That's it.

teacher 44:35 
This is also explicit interaction.Okay, how about the other?Okay, how about the other?So sometimes, remember, if we're talking about explicit interaction, we have to give users very clear instruction, okay, for example, the game tells me that you have to pick up this bottle of water, place it here to unlock something.Okay?So this is something that has to be give, the instruction has to be give to me in a very clear way, okay?Otherwise, the bottle can be placed here.I don't know you.If you just give me a instruction saying that you move the bottle, which is super unclear, right?So I can move the bottle anywhere.So this is not the way we do it.Okay?If this interaction is explicit, remember, you have to give user very clear instructions, okay?If it's implicit, for example, move to this spot, you don't need to give users very clear instructions.Use your le, right hand, eh, right leg first, left the leg.You do not need to do so, right?Just work there.That's it.Okay?Just have a look.That's it.Okay?

teacher 45:59 
So remember in your Excel application design, okay, if you want to have some explicit interactions, give clear instructions, okay, based on the cognitive ability of your users, okay?For example, I did a lot of VR applications for children, okay?So you can expect that if I embed a lot of explicit interactions in my application, then perhaps I should give more, even more detailed, right?So if you're designing XR application for older adults, even with, for example, cognitive impairments, okay, you should think about this, okay, you need to give very detailed interactions, but for implicit interactions, you may skip that, you may skip that, okay, so this is about interaction.And the last part is about different objects within the scenes, okay, within the environment, for example, avatars, okay, so if you're in, you really interested into metaverse, you know that avatars are quite important, right?So you use avatars to represent yourself in social BR applications.You also interact through your avatars with other people's avatars, email lovers, right?So avatars are super important.I have a recent research on different case patterns and also facial expressions and how these facial expressions, case patterns can affect people's perception of other people within metaverse.Okay, that's why advertise are super important.And the ordinary way of doing this is through a customization process.Okay.For example, you can ask a user to pick skin color, body shape, whether it's a female Avatar or male Avatar, oh, the different hairstyles, whether the Avatar should wear glasses, things like that.Okay, so this is called Avatar customization, which is a very important step to induce the so called sense of embodiment.

teacher 48:06 
Okay, so notice that sense of embodiment, I just in mention about this when I introduce these lectures.Okay, sense of embodiment is super important.You believe the Avatar is your Avatar.You believe you're inside the Avatar okay, so this is called sense of embodiment so Avatar customization is a way of doing so other ways for example photogrammetry to have a 3D scan of your own body okay and then we just Po import that body the that virtual body into different Excel applications okay, these are all the different design decisions you have to make okay even in some applications you do not need an Avatar especially for AR applications okay for applications I can see my own hands so why do I need an Avatar I don't need an Avatar okay, but if a is a collaboration okay remote collaboration AR application okay for example I collaborate with this student okay, he's also wearing a AR headset, for example, Microsoft hotlines, okay?It's very important for him to see me, right?In his headset, I have to present myself as an Avatar, right?In my headset, he has to represent himself as an Avatar to me, okay?But for myself, I do not need to see my own Avatar because I can see my own hands, I can see my own body, right?So that's it.So these are all little decisions you have to make.

teacher 49:34 
1St, do you need an Avatar?Do you need a narrative for the local user?Do you need a narrative for the remote user?Okay?And do you, if you need an Avatar, does it need to be super realistic through a 3D scanning process, okay, to create these virtual avatars or it can be done through a simple cus Avatar customization process, okay, so these are all little decisions you have to make based on your application, okay, remember adequate, okay, of course, every time we can do something that super realistic, but it's not, you know, necessary in many cases, okay, so adequate data, of course, all the things, the Avatar, the environment can be data and also you can visualize data in inside Excel applications, right?And also data is not only about the data output, it also about in put, for example, how do you type in VR?

teacher 50:38 
Very difficult, right you have to use a pointer to point to Core t keyboard and then you just press the trigger and then enter the the letters one by one which is a very clumsy procedure right so if you have any good ways to enter data okay either is it can be just letters words or something else for example numbers okay I it should form a very good research topic actually okay even for some applications you need a lot of ways to enter data okay so you should think about this so all these three different components can be called content okay content next time okay maybe after your graduation you decide to start your own studio doing XR development okay, in Hong Kong, just like some of my previous students.Okay.When people tell you that you have to develop a VR content for me, okay, you should ask the question, what types of environment you're going, you ask me to build, okay, what are the interactions you're going to build?And also what are the objects you're going to have within the environment?

teacher 51:54 
Okay, three different questions.Okay, so any questions about this slide?Okay, before I move on to the definition of XR, let's have a 10 minute break is 8:20 and we will resume the lecture at 8:30.Okay, 8,3,0.

teacher 01:03:10 
Okay, it's 8:31 please take your seat and we will resume the lecture.Okay, during the break I think a lot of you ask me about borrowing the Oculus headsets from from the technical team right so our guideline is that every team every project team okay can have up to two sets okay so if you read the if you have already read the project description you will find that I will give you a bonus if your application is has a networked element okay for example is a multiplayer game okay you will have the bonus so that's why I will let you to borrow up to two headsets okay for each group just in case you want to get this bonus and make the experience and network experience okay, so if you have already borrow that, it is fine.

teacher 01:04:08 
Okay, but remember we have a very limited amount of the headsets.Okay, so if your group has three, which means that another group may have just one, okay, so if you borrowed more than two for your group, okay, just return it to the technical team, okay, where you got the headsets.

teacher 01:04:28 
Okay, so let's resume the lecture.I will later on I will send announcement just in case some of you're not here today.Okay?Okay, let's resume the lecture.So next part I'm going to spend some time to discuss what is the virtuality.Okay, so as I mention, t is very mature, okay, it has been around for over I think over 60 years already okay, so that's why the the this particular domain of knowledge has already been really well defined okay, so it is not something new so that's why we use virtuality to study XR okay, instead of using more you know latest but may not be that mature terms okay, for example mix reality so if you search Virtual ID on Google you will find that some pictures like this okay, the left one okay has s and some of you may even find the pictures like the one on the right okay, some large curve displays okay, projection screens so does it mean that virtual actually equals to displays and screens.

teacher 01:05:43 
Well, of course it is not right?That is why we have to define virtual reality.So this is the definition of VR from our textbook.Okay, Laville's Virtuality textbook.Okay, the definition is inducing target behavior in an organism by using artificial sensory stimulation while the organism has little or no awareness of the interference.Okay, this is a very good definition of VR.Okay, why I say so?Okay, I have already highlighted some of the words.For example, behavior, organism, artificial sensory and no awareness.Okay, so these are the keywords.Why it is like so?Well, first of all, let's have a look at target behavior.Okay, so the organism is having an experience.Okay, so that's why I'm always talking about user experience XR experience virtual at experience right so we're talking about experience is not about the content okay it's not only about the content it's about an experience okay so the organism is having an experience that was designed by the creator design by you right so you if you're the designer of the XR experience then it simply means that the organism a user is using your experience is experiencing your ex experience right examples include flying walking exploring watching a movie and socializing with other organisms okay, the last one of course means social BR right so that's the target behavior okay Siri remember the explicit interaction and explicit interaction, right for these interactions, basically these are the target behaviors you want your users to experience, to behave, right?So that's why you have to give very clear instructions.Okay, so this is the target behavior organism, okay, this could be you, someone else, or even another live form such as fruit fly, cockroach, fish, rodent or monkey.Okay, so basically scientists have used to be our technology on all of this.Okay, later on we will see an example.Okay, so in general, basically if you, we are not talking about some extreme cases that we use animals to do VR research, okay, then basically organism simply means your users.

teacher 01:08:19 
Okay, artificial sensory stimulation, this is also very important because everything is just virtual for virtual reality, right?So through the power of engineering, one or more senses of the organism become co opt, okay, at least partially, and their ordinary inputs are replaced or enhanced by artificial simulation, okay.For example, when you wear the headset, you listen to the sound made by the speakers, right?Your vision is totally blocked by the headset.What do you see is just something artificial, right?So this is called artificial sensory simulation.

teacher 01:09:01 
In the next lecture, may not next week, but the next lecture, okay, we're going to talk about sensory stimulations, okay?Sensations, press exceptions, okay.So this is just give you a very brief glimpse towards the definition of VR okay, the last one is also very important awareness okay, so I would say that in an ultimate virtual reality experience you would not be able to tell whether you're experiencing is real or fake hey whether it is real thing or something artificial okay, there are lots of such examples in SCI fi movies for example west world anyone watch that series before festival okay, so you cannot tell if it's a robot or not right some of the avatars within that the park thing okay, so you cannot tell whether it's a robot or a real human being okay, so for VR we also have some examples so Star Trek okay maybe it's too old for for your generation.Okay, so startup in some of the series, they have a technology called holiday back, okay, which are space that they can use the energy to create some objects and even avatars.Okay.You can interact with these avatars because artificial intelligence is a very common thing in the near future.Okay.So even you can imagine that I build a super realistic Avatar and use chat GBT to drive it.Maybe you cannot tell whether you're talking with a real human being, okay or just some robots, right.So this is about we awareness the higher I the higher the visual fidelity.Okay.And also other artificial sense sensory simulations, the less you will be aware that you are in a virtual.

teacher 01:11:06 
Okay, so that's are the four very important keywords about Lavio's definition of VR.So any questions?Okay, so next time if you asked by people what is VR use this definition.Okay, okay, so this is an experiment I just mention this is a very extreme case VR for a cockroach.Okay, how can people do this?Okay, so let me just play this YouTube video for you.

teacher 01:11:47 
So can you see it?

teacher 01:12:01 
So this is the actually something that people used to as I hate YouTube ads.Okay, so this is something that people made to investigate how these virtual reality system can be used to study the behavior of some insects okay, so why we design this and why it can be called virtual this system okay, so if we go back and see whether the four elements are there okay, for example target targeted behavior the insect which is mounted on this sphere has these targeted behaviors because we make a a more like a mess okay for the insect to navigate around okay, so the target behavior is very simple work okay or navigate okay, that's it target behavior then what other one?Organism okay, of course a cockroach is an organism right?

teacher 01:13:01 
Artificial sensory stimulation.Yes, because there is a projector here okay, so we use this official I.Fish islands to actually project these are seeing that for the course to actually see okay, and also for the cockroach for the artificial sensory simulation, the cockroach has nowhere that he is always standing on us on top of a Sophia okay, the Sophia will react to its movement right?So this is also artificial sensory simulation okay, just like you wrong on our treadmill for example okay, the treadmill will give you the sense that you're actual tree running in the physical space right but it's actually you're centri stationary okay in relative to the 3D space.The last one is awareness this is very hard to tell okay, I don't know whether the cockroach can sense that, but it seems that it it can behave just like it has no awareness that he is living in a virtual at his space.Okay, so this is a very extreme case.This is not okay, so basically this man it's a cockroach right so he is actually let me play it again.So basically he is a standing on this treadmill and then you can just wear a very specialized sleeper and then walk even wrong jump on this platform.Okay.And he has nowhere he basically thinks that he's actually moving in this 3D space.Okay, but of course he's not.

teacher 01:15:02 
I just want to have a very simple discussion here in the Vale's definition of VI says that in inducing targeted behavior in an organism by using artificial sensory stimulation, why?The organism has little or no awareness of the interference.So are the following.Is virtual reality?Reading a book, is this virtual reality?Is this virtual reality?No.Why?You're quite aware that you're reading a book.So that's not watching a 3D movie.Is that virtuality?No.Okay.Why?You're still, well, using the same reason again.

teacher 01:15:55 
Okay.Talking with someone over phone, is that virtuality?No.Okay.Playing world of world craft with friends?Yes.Some people say yes, some people say no.Okay.Using TikTok.Okay.The same thing applied here.That book, 3D movie, phone, telephone, online games, multiple user online games.Okay.And TikTok, which is a social media, I would say.Okay, they're all different types of media.

teacher 01:16:36 
Okay, the discussion will be based on the Assumption that virtual ID is also a medium.Okay, it's also a medium.Why I see?Okay, why I see?So this is not from something else.This is actually from a paper, a journal paper that has been published in a journal of communication, which is the top tier journal of media and communication, basically.Okay, this paper was originally published in 1992.

teacher 01:17:09 
Okay, discussion, the definition of virtuality.As you can see here, all different media can be placed on top of these 2D plane.Okay, on the horizontal access, we have the interactivity.On the vertical access, we have vividness, okay, so we can place different medium on top of that.For example, book has basically no vividness, I guess, okay, so it, well, it depends on your imagination, right?So, but there is no interactivity, right?You cannot interact with others, you cannot interact with the medium, you cannot interact with the writer, right?So there is no interactivity there.Movie and also 3D movie, they're more vivid, but still you do not have interactions with the director, for example, with the writer again, right?So video games, of course, they have a higher level of interactivity, right?You can interact with different objects within the virtual environment, as we mentioned, you can also, in the case of online games, you can also interact with other players, right?In games have higher interactivity, then how about virtual reality?How about virtual reality?

teacher 01:18:29 
As I mentioned at the very first beginning, one very important thing for good XR experience is adequate, right?Which means that you do not need to have the ultimate vividness, you do not need to have the ultimate interactivity.It depends on the needs, okay, the user requirements.So that's why I prefer to draw a very large circle here, okay, so virtual ID covers a great area on these 2D plane, okay, on this to the plane, but people may ask, where is the boundary, okay, for example, for these 4, I guess a lot of people say no, but when I s when I ask people, it's playing virtual playing word or craft with friends, virtuality, some people say yes, I heard someone said yes here.Okay, so it simply means that the boundary is really blurry.Okay, so maybe you place, you know what a Warcraft here, okay, online games, right?But if this boundary is a little bit larger, you will think that playing world of Warcraft is also virtuous.Okay, but there is no solid boundary here.

teacher 01:19:41 
Okay, so if someday, maybe next year, maybe 10 years later, okay, please decided to make a VR version over reality, sorry, what a Warcraft, then it is virtual reality.You just need to change one thing, the perspective and also the device, right?World War Craft is a third person perspective, which first we change it to first person, right?The second thing we need to do is not play it on an ordinary monitor.We play it in VR headset, which I guess will be very popular by then, right?Then it is virtual reality, right?Everyone will see that it is virtual active.We didn't change the content too much.We just change the perspective plus the interaction device.That's it.Okay?It becomes virtuality.So the boundary is really blurry here, okay?

teacher 01:20:30 
It's really hard to say, but still we have the ultimate examples of virtual ID I have already mentioned about this for example, in the SCI fi movie Ready Player One the main character can actually enter this virtual world through these devices they have that we already have the headset we just do not have that honey system to let you feel the bullet hitting you okay and also the climbing the forces you know, we do have some devices later on we will when we talk about multi sensory XR I will talk about those devices okay but largely they're in the in the labs okay, not in the mass market okay.And also on the other hand we have the holder da holder deck okay.So the message I want to deliver is that VR makes you feel being there in the virtual world.This is the very important thing, okay?You feel like you're inside there because of the interactivity and fidelity of the medium, which is also called Vivienness.Okay.So speaking of the sense of the feeling of being there, okay, we have a term actually talking about this.It is called presence.Okay?It is called presence.So as you can see here, we have already introduced Labio's definition of virtuality, which is publish in 2016.Okay.But earlier in twen in 1992, just as I mentioned in the journal of communication, Stew, Jonathan Stew has already said that the key to defining virtuality in terms of human experience rather than technological hardware is the concept of presence, okay, so presence base simply means that the feeling of being there, all the sense of being there, okay, as long as you feel that you're inside that medium, that virtual world, okay, we can see that it is virtual reality, okay, but of course the definition is from the human experience perspective, just as Jonathan still mentioned, okay, he said the key to define virtuality is through u human experience, okay, but for us, you're taking the master's program in computing, okay, so that's why we still need to talk about the technology.

teacher 01:22:49 
Okay, so normally when we talk about vividness intro and also interactivity, which are the two axis of that to the plane for defining different medium, okay, we're basically talking about grass steps, okay, for the business and speed range mapping for interactivity.Okay, so press and depth, it is very easy to understand, right?So how large this space is, how detail you can put into this space, what types of, you know, objects you wish to place inside this world, okay, with how much detail, for example, okay, so these are about Vivian's for interactivity, we're talking about, for example, the tracking speed, tracking range, how your body can be mapped into the 3D space, okay, so in some cases, you can map your hands only, okay, there are technologies that can map your whole body in the virtual space, okay, so of course you can do more interact interactive behaviors, okay, for example, you can imagine that I'll I just wear an ordinary be a headset, okay, I'm now standing on a football court, for example, I saw the football, I want to kick it, okay, I want to kick it, but there is no response from the system, okay, simply because there is no technology to check the position of my feet, okay, there is no such interactivity.So I immediately I can sense that I'm not part of the food, this environment, right?This is called the break of presence, okay, this is called the break or presence because if I'm really in the real environment, okay, I can kick this ball, I can kick the football, right?But in this virtual environment, I cannot.So I have the awareness that I'm in a virtual world.

teacher 01:24:46 
Again, we're talking about awareness, right?So in this case, it breaks my sense of presence, okay?So in order to achieve that, we have to have the technology to track my feet in order to enable this interactive pretty, right?So that is a mapping we're talking about through mapping, through interactivity, and then to support human experience of sense of presence.So this is the example I just used, okay, to explain mapping, interactivity and how Vivienne and interactivity support sense of presence.So any questions?Okay.So if no questions, let's move on to the next slide.I have already talk about that because the boundary is really blurry.You cannot call a particular thing virtuality and call another thing not.So the very important thing is to make the adequate vividness and adequate inter for your application.Okay.

teacher 01:25:51 
Immersion.This is also another world.Okay.Another term that you may encounter a lot when we talk about I star.Okay.Have you ever heard about immersion before?Okay.Have you ever heard about this word before?No.Okay.It seems that no one watch the apple's presentation of a Vision Pro.Okay.So if you can't, okay, immersive and immersion, okay, these two words during the whole presentation, you will find that they're mention many times, okay, when they present Apple Vision Pro, okay, but to me, as a VR researcher, okay, I would say that apple used this word wrongly, incorrectly, okay, why I say so?Because the early definition of immersion are very unclear, okay, but now in the modern view, we use, we do not use a presence and immersion in an interchangeable way.We no longer use them in the interchangeable way, okay, when you talk with a VR researcher, you use the word immersion, then we understand that we have the common sense that you're talking about the capability of the device, okay, the capability of the device.

teacher 01:27:15 
When we talk about the experience, okay, when we talk about the experience, we will use the word presence.Okay?So this is the modern view.Remember?This is the modern view.Okay?If you go back, for example, if you read some paper in the early 2000, you will find that these two words may be used interchangeably, okay?But in the modern world, you are talking with someone who is doing VR research or who is a very experienced VR developer.Okay?You want to mention the capability of the device, you use inversion.Okay?You want to talk about the human experience, you use presence.Okay?So now you can see why I said apple.Use the word Ronnie.Why?Because apple seldomly talks about the capability of the device.Okay?They always talk about the experience.Of course, apple has change, right nowadays, but they used to talk about the experience.So that's why, that's why they should use the presence.But presence is a less exposed word, I would say.Okay.A lot of people are very familiar with the word immersion and immersive.Okay.From the technological perspective, we always talk about immersion.So speaking of immersion, another very important thing that has been being around for quite a while, it's about the four crucial technologies and the four auxiliary technologies for to enable virtuality.Okay.The full crucial technologies are the first one is the visual, the visual displays.It can also be your the oral and also can be hectic okay not immerse the user in the virtual world not black block out contradictory sensory impressions from the real world okay so this is very straightforward right so when you wear the headset you cannot see things around okay unless it's a mix reality headset okay so we're talking about VR now of course these particular technology stands okay the second one the graphics rendering system not generates at 20 to 30 frames per second the ever changing images okay so remember this was published in 1999 okay 20 to thirty it's really high okay so it's really high I see I don't know for you when when I deliver and a similar course at the undergraduates level many people told me that especially the students recently told me that they were born after 9099 okay so, it's been a quite a while okay so that's why it is said 20 to 30 but we can treat this as a high refresh rate okay the second crucial technology should be the rendering at a high refresh rate okay the third one is the tracking system that continually report the position and orientation of the users head and links okay including feet okay but apparently many of the headsets commercially available headsets cannot track your feet.The last one is the database construction and maintenance system for building and maintaining detailed and realistic models of the world.

teacher 01:30:47 
Okay, so do we have these technologies?Do we have this technology?Yes, of course.Unity, right?Unreal.Some people even mentioned origin.Okay, this is a really old engine.Okay?Right.So all the game engines should be able to construct and maintain all the virtual assets, right, in your project.So we do have all the four crucial technologies nowadays.

teacher 01:31:21 
Then how about the auxiliary technologies?Okay, the first one is synthesize the sound display to the ears, including directional sound and simulated sound fields.Okay, so this is something that often be overlooked by XR developers.Okay, so the sound is quite important.In unity, you can actually simulate this, okay, very easily, okay, using different plugins and also the building audio mixer, okay, of unity to simulate directional sound, okay, but to similar his sound in a very realistic way, it's super difficult, okay, later on when we talk about the rendering, visual rendering, I will also mention about how to render the audio, okay, which shares a very similar property to light, basically, okay, so a lot of physical properties of sound, which is a mechanical wave, okay, share with the physical properties of light, which is a electron magnetic wave, okay, the properties are the same, so for the first one, we can do s the sound simulation at relatively realistic level, okay, but still you need to put a lot of engineering efforts in this.There is no, to be honest, there is no plug and play system, okay, for rendering super realistic sound display of synthesized forces and other hectic sensations to the Kenneth, to the kinesatic senses.

teacher 01:33:01 
This is a not very common outside labs, okay, BR labs, okay, for example, if I hold this bottle, I should feel the weight, right?So imagine this is a virtual one, I hold it, I cannot feel the weight, okay, for many of the commercial BR system, okay, so that's why we say, so, the third one, devices such as tracker gloves with push buttons by which the user specifies interactions with virtual objects.Yes, we can do that, right?We have the controllers, the controllers may have joysticks, the controllers may also be able to check your hands at your fingers very reliably.Okay, for example, if you use the index above index controller, okay, it can track your fingers.Okay, but of course we nowadays we also rely on computer vision based solutions to track your body to check your fingers, check your arm.Okay, so we do have this accelerate technology.

teacher 01:33:59 
The last one interaction techniques that substitute for the real interactions possible with the physical world.Okay, this is a very tricky.Okay, so what does it mean by saying that can substitute for real interactions possible with the physical world.So this is a very generic definition.Okay?So just as I mentioned, I kick the ball, right?If I kick the football, then first of all, the football should fly, okay?The second thing is that I should feel the sand.I should feel the football also kicks me, right?Right?So this is about force and force apply to my feet.So I should be able to feel that.So if we want to achieve that, I would say that first of all, the vision sound hectic feedback should be rendered in a corrective way to make me feel that I'm in the virtual world, sorry, in the physical world, right?So this is very hard to do.So that's why the last one is a very genetic, okay, the very generic technology.And I don't think we're there yet.Okay?We're done yet.So this is the specs of HTC by Pro.I will not go through it one by one, but as you can see here, this SS, VR, SS do have these four crucial technologies, okay?But for the auxiliary technologies, maybe not.Okay.

teacher 01:35:30 
Next we move to the history of XR.Okay.So history of XR is very interesting, okay, because even before analog age, people try to recreate or preserve the physical world, okay, in a certain ways, in certain ways, okay, and for you to enjoy, okay, without leaving your home.

teacher 01:35:51 
Interesting, right?For example, perspective.This is a very interesting thing.Okay, so perspective is the very fundamental feature of western painting in the, I would see, 15th century, okay, 15th century as you can see here, this is on the left hand side, you're seeing a picture that is shown between 13:08 to 13:11.Okay?So this is a 14th century.Okay, 14th century.So there is no perspective.Okay?All the perspective is not correct.It's there.Okay, people try to draw in a perspective way, but it is incorrect.Okay?On the right hand side is there 142026 to 1427.Okay, we have very correct perspective in this painting.Okay, we have a very correct perspective in this painting.So you feel like on the right hand side you have a higher Vivienne, right?So we're talking about business again, on the right, on the left hand side, you still feel that, okay, but you always feel that there is something wrong, there is something simply because the perspective is not correct, okay, this in the 16th century in China, okay, we do not have perspective join, okay, so we're, we live in a different way, I would say we all often think things in different ways, compare to the western, okay, culture.

teacher 01:37:35 
And later on when we have the film, I mean, photography, okay, people start to think about how to better preserve reality and then let you to enjoy in other occasions.Okay, so we have this so called stereograph.Okay, so this is a typical stereograph.It contains the left image and the right image.Okay.It use two lenses, okay, and also two pieces of film, of course.Okay, digital was not a thing.This is in the analog age.Okay, so use film to preserve these two pictures.Okay.Sh.These two pictures are shooting by two different cameras.You can think about this in this way.Okay.And when you want to view it, you use this special device.Okay, so as you can see here, the left one and the right one, they're basically the same, right?The left one of course is analog, right?It's analog.Okay, the right one, we just use the led or Ola displays to actually replace the static images, right?The photos.That's it.So this is the digital age of XR.Okay, of course, as I mention, it has already been guys, I XR has already been around for quite a long time.

teacher 01:39:03 
Okay, and to your big surprise, actually the first XR device developed and published in 9068 is actually an AR device, augmented reality device.Okay, it's not a virtual reality device.Okay, so we will see this one by one.

teacher 01:39:25 
Okay, this is the this device is not called the sort of double quiz.Okay, this device is not called that okay, but I don't know when people why people refer to this is always called the sort of thumb case.Okay, it is because of the demo, I think.Okay, so the demo basically is a storytelling of the sort of demo quiz.Okay, so that's why people think that this entire device is called sort of demo keys.Okay, it is not.Okay, so this is actually a standardize demo of an AR device.

teacher 01:40:02 
Okay, so this this is a very interesting one.Why it is like so?Okay, you can hardly imagine that almost 70 years ago we have the capability of building this.Okay, so in order to build an AI device, this is a, remember, this is a optical C through AI device, okay, so you have to develop the optics, okay, the display system, right?And more importantly, you need to have the tracking system, okay, the tracking system, how this was done, okay, I've never experience this, okay, not like a vision pro, okay, you can ask me a lot of details about vision Pro because I just experience that in Apple's headquarter, but for this one, I've never yet had experience that, but I guess I'm not old enough, okay, but I actually heard Sunderland actually talking about this device at a triple EVR, a conference, okay, so he was the guest speaker there.So that's why I had a very short discussion with him about some of the details I was quite interested in so I will try to explain this okay as you can see here they're are some very weird kind of devices on top of the user's head okay what are these four okay what are these for they're not for receiving signals from the aliens okay but instead they're for receiving the signals from these sources okay so this one this one this one and this one okay these fourth these four devices are the in meters of radio waves okay video weeks so these devices are for receiving re radio waves why it is like so okay because the four emitters are tune to different frequency.Okay, so the receiver can based on the frequency to determine the orientation and also precision of these of the headsense.Okay, and also you can see here this is an optical see through system so that's why it has this very willed like a Terminator kind of device here.Okay, this is optical see through system.Okay, and when you wear the system it is like so I can play this video for you.Okay, okay, you can see here it is the mechanical connection here.Okay, so there is a mechanical connection here.Okay, and also this is the demo you can what you can see through the goggles.Okay, this is actually a video that you cannot find on YouTube okay, this is the video actually Sunderland sends me okay, let me play it again and let you have a look as I mentioned these receivers can actually seek, can actually check the orientation of the headset but they cannot check the position okay, so that's why there should be another mechanical connection to determine the position of the headset okay, so it can track the headset in a 6 degree of freedom fashion okay, 6 degree of freedom we will talk about this later on okay, but for short it can track the position as well as the orientation okay, this is the tracking device.And also I just want to share with you a very interesting thing I heard from Sunderland.Okay.As you can see here in this picture, there is a black thing on top.Okay, a black thing on top.No one paid attention to this, but this is actually why the demo will not work during winter time.Can you imagine why?This is something that a thunder and actually share during the conference.

teacher 01:44:14 
Okay.Can you imagine why this very black duck thing on top will make the demo not working during winter time?Okay, this is actually the heater.Okay, for this lab, the heater will blow the wind and then affect the radio frequency.Okay.So that's why the demo will not work during winter okay, so this is just something I want to share with you.

teacher 01:44:52 
Okay, okay, so the next thing I want to share is called the Aspen Movie map.This is also a very old demo.Okay, this is all the also a very old demo.It was originally published in 191980.Okay, so it's it more than 40 years ago.Okay, so this is the first attempt to create something that is very similar to Google Map.Okay, the immersive version more like Google Earth.Okay, so it just models different.Buildings or the streets in a city called Aspen.Okay, so that's why this is called Aspen Movie.

teacher 01:45:37 
Okay, as you can see here, this is how we achieved the first system that can manage the large amount of 3D data, okay, 3D data and also associated problems such as rendering problems, interaction problems, how the audio, video and other information can be stored, okay, so this is the first attempt to build Google Earth, okay, okay, so this one, as you can see, this is more close to the headset we see nowadays, okay, so this is called the NASA View system.Okay, so this system is very, as I mentioned, very close to the SS we see nowadays.It has no mechanical attachments, okay, it uses the microphones and also the smaller LCD displays, okay, to display images and it has a data gloves okay, data gloves to actually let you to interact with different objects it was originally designed to train astronauts okay, so this device was a.In partner with BPL okay, why I mention this particular company here okay, so this company no longer exist okay, no longer exist because the owner or the creator of BPL actually first coin the world virtual ID okay, so virtual reality was not a thing okay, no one call this virtual reality okay, but Jerome actually is the first people call this device virtuality device okay, he is a very interesting person okay, so so he actually use the term virtual reality to describe this a 3D rendering graphical thing okay, so during that period of time Gerald actually spent a lot of time selling these very similar replicated systems to universities in the US okay, he sold a lot of these devices but never he never had a very fancy world okay to sell this to NASA okay, so you can imagine that when when he started the his business he started to sell this the 3D rendering commodity graphics device to computer science professors right s they can quickly grasp the idea by looking at this very long term right but when he want he wanted to sell this to NASA NASA people do not have the in depth knowledge towards computer rendering you can imagine this is a in 1990, okay, they do not have such deep knowledge so Gerald spend some time to think about how I can call this device, how I should call this device, then he come up with the world virtual reality, okay, and when he invented this world calling this world everyone is calling virtuality, okay, so this is such a good term for his device, okay, so I also prepare the video for you to have a look at least nothing.

teacher 01:49:12 
So this video was originally in NASA's archive, okay, someone, I don't know how they can actually get hands on this video, but they uploaded to YouTube, as you can see here, they use the data gloves to actually do these interactions.

teacher 01:49:50 
Okay, this is a rendering of the lab okay, so as you can see, it's a super simple, it's a.And also you can see your hand.This is for enhancing the embodiment and you also you to let people know where their hands are really are okay, in the virtual world.

teacher 01:50:15 
So you can imagine that the number of polygons for this hand may be the same as the total environment okay, so to make a super realistic hand, at least you have a great number of polygons in order to do it right but for the environment is super low resolution in terms of the number of polygons.

teacher 01:50:44 
So you get the idea.Okay, so this is the technology from 1990s.Okay, you can also interact with the text menus.Okay, this is the NASA BU system.So till then I think most of the VR assets are used by proof professionals, okay, either for training astronauts, fighter jets, pilots, people like that.Okay, but the first commercial product of BR headset actually come from Nintendo.Okay, quite surprise, right?Nintendo actually made these as virtual boy VR devices.Okay, it was originally published in 1998.Okay, and they have this so called red model Chrome display technology.Okay, so this is another very interesting technology.But I'm afraid that I do not have the time today to introduce you, but we will save it for the next lecture okay, so this is a very good device it used a very clever thinking behind to actually use a single sling of led okay to display images okay, so it is very you can imagine that you only have one theme of the pixels on your monitor but it can display the entire image okay, how can you do that?Okay, how can you do that?So that's why there are lots of clever thinking behind this but unfortunately I think this one is not very popular okay, it's not very popular I actually tried to buy one from eBay okay, and I cannot find a working one okay, unfortunately okay, I try to buy one to let you to experience it okay, but I cannot find working one on eBay I I will try to look for it okay, I will try to look for it but if you go online and you go to YouTube and search Nintendo virtual boy I think someone bought some bought this device in w full working condition and also he also bought some games for this so you can have a look and experience it virtually again virtually okay through YouTube so this is about the led technology I just want to mention but I will save it for the next lecture okay, that's it for today so I will see you next week.Okay, so remember next week we're going to start the tutorial at the 6:30.Okay, 6:30.

